# Human Activity recognition- Using weighted mean ensemble
This project involves the use of weighted mean ensemble technique to classify various human activities based on different activities like, sitting, walking, moving upstairs, moving downstairs, running, lying. This model uses sensor data signals generated from laboratory monitored conditions to create different sensor data sequences for different activities, contributed by numerous subjects. Sensors like gyroscope and accelerometer are used to register datas along x, y and z axes to register the different motions of body parts while performing different activities as mentioned earlier.
## Dataset Description- WISDM 
Link to dataset: https://www.cis.fordham.edu/wisdm/dataset.php

WISDM is a dataset prepared by using smartphone sensors to register the accelerometer readings as raw time series data, under well controlled laboratory conditions. It consists of a total of 1098027 examples. The raw data from sensors were then processed as data sequences for six daily life activities; namely, Walking, Jogging, Moving Upstairs, Moving downstairs, Sitting and Standing. Since the values are generated under laboratory conditions, the data entry is near perfect without any significant drop in data. Distribution of the number of examples each activity, after preprocessing the dataset.
## Methodology 
I have basically used an weighted mean ensemble approach. Ensembling, in easier terms, is a process to maximise the accuracy of the base classifiers by taking the best from property from each classifier. Since for sensor data signals, the sequences for similar activities may be similar and hence the confidence probability that the classifier assigns for each class may not have clear distinction. Due to this, a single base classifier might be best for certain activity and might not be good for the others. If we follow the confusion matrix generated, we might identify the trend. Hence we come across the need to use an ensemble.
In this ensemble technique we require the confidence scores generated by the classifiers. Now, the weights for each classifier is determined by finding the tanh(hyperbolic tangent) of the accuracy of individual base classifiers. Hence, the base classifier, with the highest accuracy that is, the best working model gets the highest weight and subsequently the overall accuracy of the ensemble increases significantly comapared to the individual base classifiers.

Next, the above ensemble technique is used as an evaluation metrics to check the performance of the sugeno fuzzy integral based ensemble technique.
## Models
I have constructed three models:
### A custom model - this is constructed using three one dimensional convulational layers followed by two bidirectional LSTM layers
### A model following the architecture of VGG16 but the two dimensional CNN used in the original model is replaced with one dimensional CNN.
### A model following the architecture of ResNet18. as mentioned above, the Conv2D layers are similarly replaced by one dimensional layers.
The modification is done because the sensor datas are two dimensional data while the two dimensional CNN takes three dimension as input, as in form images. Hence the Conv1D layers are used to address the problem.
## Results
With the use of ensemble technique I have encountered a significsnt increase in the accuracy of the ensemble techbique as compared to the base classifiers. The base accuracy for the respective models being 97.45, 97.33, 91.56 while after the application of the ensemble, the accuracy rose up to 97.82 being greater than the state of the art accuracy i.e. 97.21
